source/configuration/modules/imfile.rst, before:

imfile: Text File Input Module
==============================

.. index:: ! imfile 

===========================  ===========================================================================
**Module Name:**             **imfile**
**Author:**                  `Rainer Gerhards <http://www.gerhards.net/rainer>`_ <rgerhards@adiscon.com>
===========================  ===========================================================================

This module provides the ability to convert any standard text file
into a syslog
message. A standard text file is a file consisting of printable
characters with lines being delimited by LF.

The file is read line-by-line and any line read is passed to rsyslog's
rule engine. The rule engine applies filter conditions and selects which
actions needs to be carried out. Empty lines are **not** processed, as
they would result in empty syslog records. They are simply ignored.

As new lines are written they are taken from the file and processed.
Depending on the selected mode, this happens via inotify or based on
a polling interval. Especially in polling mode, file reading doesn't
happen immediately. But there are also slight delays (due to process
scheduling and internal processing) in inotify mode.

The file monitor supports file rotation. To fully work,
rsyslogd must run while the file is rotated. Then, any remaining lines
from the old file are read and processed and when done with that, the
new file is being processed from the beginning. If rsyslogd is stopped
during rotation, the new file is read, but any not-yet-reported lines
from the previous file can no longer be obtained.

When rsyslogd is stopped while monitoring a text file, it records the
last processed location and continues to work from there upon restart.
So no data is lost during a restart (except, as noted above, if the file
is rotated just in this very moment).

See Also
........

* presentation on `using wildcards with imfile <http://www.slideshare.net/rainergerhards1/using-wildcards-with-rsyslogs-file-monitor-imfile>`_

Metadata
........
The imfile module supports message metadata. It supports the following
data items

- filename 

  Name of the file where the message originated from. This is most
  useful when using wildcards inside file monitors, because it then
  is the only way to know which file the message originated from.
  The value can be accessed using the %$!metadata!filename% property.

Metadata is only present if enabled. By default it is enabled for
input() statements that contain wildcards. For all others, it is
disabled by default. It can explicitly be turned on or off via the
*addMetadata* input() parameter, which always overrides the default.

State Files
...........
Rsyslog must keep track of which parts of the monitored file
are already processed. This is done in so-called "state files".
These files are always created in the rsyslog working directory
(configurable via $WorkDirectory).

To avoid problems with duplicate state files, rsyslog automatically
generates state file names according to the following scheme:

- the string "imfile-state:" is added before the actual file name,
  which includes the full path
- the full name is prepended after that string, but all occurrences
  of "/" are replaced by "-" to facilitate handling of these files

As a concrete example, consider file ``/var/log/applog`` is
being monitored. The corresponding state file will be named
``imfile-state:-var-log-applog``.

Note that it is possible to set a fixed state file name via the
deprecated "stateFile" parameter. It is suggested to avoid this, as
the user must take care of name clashes. Most importantly, if
"stateFile" is set for file monitors with wildcards, the **same**
state file is used for all occurrences of these files. In short,
this will usually not work and cause confusion. Upon startup,
rsyslog tries to detect these cases and emit warning messages.
However, the detection simply checks for the presence of "*"
and as such it will not cover more complex cases.

Note that when $WorkDirectory is not set or
set to a non-writable location, the state file **will not be generated**.
In those cases, the file content will always be completely re-sent by
imfile, because the module does not know that it already processed
parts of that file.

Module Parameters
-----------------

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; mode
.. function:: mode ["inotify"/"polling"]

   *Default: "inotify"*

   *Available since: 8.1.5*

  This specifies if imfile is shall run in inotify ("inotify") or polling
  ("polling") mode. Traditionally, imfile used polling mode, which is
  much more resource-intense (and slower) than inotify mode. It is
  suggested that users turn on "polling" mode only if they experience
  strange problems in inotify mode. In theory, there should never be a
  reason to enable "polling" mode and later versions will most probably
  remove it. 

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; PollingInterval
.. function:: PollingInterval seconds

   *Default: 10*

   This setting specifies how often files are to be
   polled for new data. For obvious reasons, it has effect only if
   imfile is running in polling mode. 
   The time specified is in seconds. During each
   polling interval, all files are processed in a round-robin fashion.
   
   A short poll interval provides more rapid message forwarding, but
   requires more system resources. While it is possible, we stongly
   recommend not to set the polling interval to 0 seconds. That will
   make rsyslogd become a CPU hog, taking up considerable resources. It
   is supported, however, for the few very unusual situations where this
   level may be needed. Even if you need quick response, 1 seconds
   should be well enough. Please note that imfile keeps reading files as
   long as there is any data in them. So a "polling sleep" will only
   happen when nothing is left to be processed.

   **We recommend to use inotify mode.**

Input Parameters
----------------

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; File
.. function:: File [/path/to/file]

   **(Required Parameter)**
   The file being monitored. So far, this must be an absolute name (no
   macros or templates). Note that wildcards are supported at the file
   name level (see "Wildcards" above for more details).

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; Tag
.. function:: Tag [tag:]

   **(Required Parameter)**
   The tag to be used for messages that originate from this file. If
   you would like to see the colon after the tag, you need to specify it
   here (like 'tag="myTagValue:"').

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; Facility
.. function:: Facility [facility]

   The syslog facility to be assigned to lines read. Can be specified
   in textual form (e.g. "local0", "local1", ...) or as numbers (e.g.
   128 for "local0"). Textual form is suggested. Default  is "local0".

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; Severity
.. function:: Severity [syslogSeverity]

   The syslog severity to be assigned to lines read. Can be specified
   in textual form (e.g. "info", "warning", ...) or as numbers (e.g. 4
   for "info"). Textual form is suggested. Default is "notice".

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; PersistStateInterval
.. function:: PersistStateInterval [lines]

   Specifies how often the state file shall be written when processing
   the input file. The **default** value is 0, which means a new state
   file is only written when the monitored files is being closed (end of
   rsyslogd execution). Any other value n means that the state file is
   written every time n file lines have been processed. This setting can
   be used to guard against message duplication due to fatal errors
   (like power fail). Note that this setting affects imfile performance,
   especially when set to a low value. Frequently writing the state file
   is very time consuming.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; startmsg.regex
.. function:: startmsg.regex [POSIX ERE regex]

   This permits the processing of multi-line messages. When set, a
   messages is terminated when the next one begins, and
   ``startmsg.regex`` contains the regex that identifies the start
   of a message. As this parameter is using regular expressions, it
   is more flexible than ``readMode`` but at the cost of lower
   performance.
   Note that ``readMode`` and ``startmsg.regex`` cannot both be
   defined for the same input.

   This parameter is available since rsyslog v8.10.0.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; readMode
.. function:: readMode [mode]

   This provides support for processing some standard types of multiline
   messages. It is less flexible than ``startmsg.regex`` but offers higher
   performance than regex processing. Note that ``readMode`` and
   ``startmsg.regex`` cannot both be defined for the same input.

   The value can range from 0-2 and determines the multiline
   detection method.

   0 - (**default**) line based (each line is a new message)

   1 - paragraph (There is a blank line between log messages)

   2 - indented (new log messages start at the beginning of a line. If a
   line starts with a space it is part of the log message before it)

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; escapeLF
.. function:: escapeLF [on/off] (requires v7.5.3+)

   This is only meaningful if multi-line messages are to be processed.
   LF characters embedded into syslog messages cause a lot of trouble,
   as most tools and even the legacy syslog TCP protocol do not expect
   these. If set to "on", this option avoid this trouble by properly
   escaping LF characters to the 4-byte sequence "#012". This is
   consistent with other rsyslog control character escaping. By default,
   escaping is turned on. If you turn it off, make sure you test very
   carefully with all associated tools. Please note that if you intend
   to use plain TCP syslog with embedded LF characters, you need to
   enable octet-counted framing.
   For more details, see Rainer's blog posting on imfile LF escaping. 

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; MaxLinesAtOnce
.. function:: MaxLinesAtOnce [number]

   This is a legacy setting that only is supported in *polling* mode.
   In *inotify* mode, it is fixed at 0 and all attempts to configure
   a different value will be ignored, but will generate an error
   message.

   Please note that future versions of imfile may not support this
   parameter at all. So it is suggested to not use it.

   In *polling* mode, if set to 0, each file will be fully processed and
   then processing switches to the next file. If it is set to any other
   value, a maximum of [number] lines is processed in sequence for each file,
   and then the file is switched. This provides a kind of mutiplexing
   the load of multiple files and probably leads to a more natural
   distribution of events when multiple busy files are monitored. For
   *polling* mode, the **default** is 10240.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; MaxSubmitAtOnce
.. function:: MaxSubmitAtOnce [number]

   This is an expert option. It can be used to set the maximum input
   batch size that imfile can generate. The **default** is 1024, which
   is suitable for a wide range of applications. Be sure to understand
   rsyslog message batch processing before you modify this option. If
   you do not know what this doc here talks about, this is a good
   indication that you should NOT modify the default.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile;  deleteStateOnFileDelete
.. function:: deleteStateOnFileDelete [on/off] (requires v8.5.0+)

   **Default: on**

   This parameter controls if state files are deleted if their associated
   main file is deleted. Usually, this is a good idea, because otherwise
   problems would occur if a new file with the same name is created. In
   that case, imfile would pick up reading from the last position in
   the **deleted** file, which usually is not what you want.

   However, there is one situation where not deleting associated state
   file makes sense: this is the case if a monitored file is modified
   with an editor (like vi or gedit). Most editors write out modifications
   by deleting the old file and creating a new now. If the state file
   would be deleted in that case, all of the file would be reprocessed,
   something that's probably not intended in most case. As a side-note,
   it is strongly suggested *not* to modify monitored files with
   editors. In any case, in such a situation, it makes sense to
   disable state file deletion. That also applies to similar use
   cases.

   In general, this parameter should only by set if the users
   knows exactly why this is required.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile;  Ruleset
.. function:: Ruleset <ruleset> 

   Binds the listener to a specific :doc:`ruleset <../../concepts/multi_ruleset>`.

.. function:: addMetadata [on/off]

   **Default: see intro section on Metadata**

   This is used to turn on or off the addition of metadata to the
   message object.

.. function:: stateFile [name-of-state-file]

   **Default: unset**

   **This paramater is deprecated.** It still is accepted, but should
   no longer be used for newly created configurations.

   This is the name of this file's state file. This parameter should
   usually **not** be used. Check the section on "State Files" above
   for more details.

Caveats/Known Bugs
------------------

* currently, wildcards are only supported in inotify mode
* read modes other than "0" currently seem to have issues in
  inotify mode

Configuration Example
---------------------

The following sample monitors two files. If you need just one, remove
the second one. If you need more, add them according to the sample ;).
This code must be placed in /etc/rsyslog.conf (or wherever your distro
puts rsyslog's config files). Note that only commands actually needed
need to be specified. The second file uses less commands and uses
defaults instead.

::

  module(load="imfile" PollingInterval="10") #needs to be done just once 

  # File 1 
  input(type="imfile" 
        File="/path/to/file1" 
        Tag="tag1"
        Severity="error" 
        Facility="local7") 

  # File 2
  input(type="imfile" 
        File="/path/to/file2" 
        Tag="tag2")

  # ... and so on ... #

Legacy Configuration
--------------------

Note: in order to preserve compatibility with previous versions, the LF escaping
in multi-line messages is turned off for legacy-configured file monitors
(the "escapeLF" input parameter). This can cause serious problems. So it is highly
suggested that new deployments use the new :ref:`input() <cfgobj_input>` configuration 
object and keep LF escaping turned on. 

Legacy Configuration Directives
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileName
.. function:: $InputFileName /path/to/file

   equivalent to "file"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileTag
.. function:: $InputFileTag tag:

   equivalent to: "tag"
   you would like to see the colon after the tag, you need to specify it
   here (as shown above).

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileStateFile
.. function:: $InputFileStateFile /path/to/state/file

   equivalent to: "StateFile"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileFacility
.. function:: $InputFileFacility facility

   equivalent to: "Facility"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileSeverity
.. function:: $InputFileSeverity severity

   equivalent to: "Severity"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputRunFileMonitor
.. function:: $InputRunFileMonitor

   This **activates** the current monitor. It has no parameters. If you
   forget this directive, no file monitoring will take place.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFilePollInterval

.. function:: $InputFilePollInterval seconds

   equivalent to: "PollingInterval"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFilePersistStateInterval

.. function:: $InputFilePersistStateInterval lines

   equivalent to: "PersistStateInterval"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileReadMode

.. function:: $InputFileReadMode mode

   equivalent to: "ReadMode"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileMaxLinesAtOnce

.. function:: $InputFileMaxLinesAtOnce number

   equivalent to: "MaxLinesAtOnce"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileBindRuleset

.. function:: $InputFileBindRuleset ruleset

   Equivalent to: Ruleset

Legacy Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following sample monitors two files. If you need just one, remove
the second one. If you need more, add them according to the sample ;).
Note that only non-default parameters actually needed
need to be specified. The second file uses less directives and uses
defaults instead.

::

  $ModLoad imfile # needs to be done just once 
  # File 1 
  $InputFileName /path/to/file1 
  $InputFileTag tag1: 
  $InputFileStateFile stat-file1

  $InputFileSeverity error 
  $InputFileFacility local7 
  $InputRunFileMonitor
  
  # File 2 
  $InputFileName /path/to/file2 
  $InputFileTag tag2:

  $InputFileStateFile stat-file2 
  $InputRunFileMonitor 
  # ... and so on ...
  # check for new lines every 10 seconds $InputFilePollingInterval 10

Commit message:

clarify need to use input() object

source/configuration/modules/imfile.rst, after:

imfile: Text File Input Module
==============================

.. index:: ! imfile 

===========================  ===========================================================================
**Module Name:**             **imfile**
**Author:**                  `Rainer Gerhards <http://www.gerhards.net/rainer>`_ <rgerhards@adiscon.com>
===========================  ===========================================================================

This module provides the ability to convert any standard text file
into a syslog
message. A standard text file is a file consisting of printable
characters with lines being delimited by LF.

The file is read line-by-line and any line read is passed to rsyslog's
rule engine. The rule engine applies filter conditions and selects which
actions needs to be carried out. Empty lines are **not** processed, as
they would result in empty syslog records. They are simply ignored.

As new lines are written they are taken from the file and processed.
Depending on the selected mode, this happens via inotify or based on
a polling interval. Especially in polling mode, file reading doesn't
happen immediately. But there are also slight delays (due to process
scheduling and internal processing) in inotify mode.

The file monitor supports file rotation. To fully work,
rsyslogd must run while the file is rotated. Then, any remaining lines
from the old file are read and processed and when done with that, the
new file is being processed from the beginning. If rsyslogd is stopped
during rotation, the new file is read, but any not-yet-reported lines
from the previous file can no longer be obtained.

When rsyslogd is stopped while monitoring a text file, it records the
last processed location and continues to work from there upon restart.
So no data is lost during a restart (except, as noted above, if the file
is rotated just in this very moment).

See Also
........

* presentation on `using wildcards with imfile <http://www.slideshare.net/rainergerhards1/using-wildcards-with-rsyslogs-file-monitor-imfile>`_

Metadata
........
The imfile module supports message metadata. It supports the following
data items

- filename 

  Name of the file where the message originated from. This is most
  useful when using wildcards inside file monitors, because it then
  is the only way to know which file the message originated from.
  The value can be accessed using the %$!metadata!filename% property.

Metadata is only present if enabled. By default it is enabled for
input() statements that contain wildcards. For all others, it is
disabled by default. It can explicitly be turned on or off via the
*addMetadata* input() parameter, which always overrides the default.

State Files
...........
Rsyslog must keep track of which parts of the monitored file
are already processed. This is done in so-called "state files".
These files are always created in the rsyslog working directory
(configurable via $WorkDirectory).

To avoid problems with duplicate state files, rsyslog automatically
generates state file names according to the following scheme:

- the string "imfile-state:" is added before the actual file name,
  which includes the full path
- the full name is prepended after that string, but all occurrences
  of "/" are replaced by "-" to facilitate handling of these files

As a concrete example, consider file ``/var/log/applog`` is
being monitored. The corresponding state file will be named
``imfile-state:-var-log-applog``.

Note that it is possible to set a fixed state file name via the
deprecated "stateFile" parameter. It is suggested to avoid this, as
the user must take care of name clashes. Most importantly, if
"stateFile" is set for file monitors with wildcards, the **same**
state file is used for all occurrences of these files. In short,
this will usually not work and cause confusion. Upon startup,
rsyslog tries to detect these cases and emit warning messages.
However, the detection simply checks for the presence of "*"
and as such it will not cover more complex cases.

Note that when $WorkDirectory is not set or
set to a non-writable location, the state file **will not be generated**.
In those cases, the file content will always be completely re-sent by
imfile, because the module does not know that it already processed
parts of that file.

Module Parameters
-----------------

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; mode
.. function:: mode ["inotify"/"polling"]

   *Default: "inotify"*

   *Available since: 8.1.5*

  This specifies if imfile is shall run in inotify ("inotify") or polling
  ("polling") mode. Traditionally, imfile used polling mode, which is
  much more resource-intense (and slower) than inotify mode. It is
  suggested that users turn on "polling" mode only if they experience
  strange problems in inotify mode. In theory, there should never be a
  reason to enable "polling" mode and later versions will most probably
  remove it. 

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; PollingInterval
.. function:: PollingInterval seconds

   *Default: 10*

   This setting specifies how often files are to be
   polled for new data. For obvious reasons, it has effect only if
   imfile is running in polling mode. 
   The time specified is in seconds. During each
   polling interval, all files are processed in a round-robin fashion.
   
   A short poll interval provides more rapid message forwarding, but
   requires more system resources. While it is possible, we stongly
   recommend not to set the polling interval to 0 seconds. That will
   make rsyslogd become a CPU hog, taking up considerable resources. It
   is supported, however, for the few very unusual situations where this
   level may be needed. Even if you need quick response, 1 seconds
   should be well enough. Please note that imfile keeps reading files as
   long as there is any data in them. So a "polling sleep" will only
   happen when nothing is left to be processed.

   **We recommend to use inotify mode.**

Input Parameters
----------------

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; File
.. function:: File [/path/to/file]

   **(Required Parameter)**
   The file being monitored. So far, this must be an absolute name (no
   macros or templates). Note that wildcards are supported at the file
   name level (see "Wildcards" above for more details).

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; Tag
.. function:: Tag [tag:]

   **(Required Parameter)**
   The tag to be used for messages that originate from this file. If
   you would like to see the colon after the tag, you need to specify it
   here (like 'tag="myTagValue:"').

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; Facility
.. function:: Facility [facility]

   The syslog facility to be assigned to lines read. Can be specified
   in textual form (e.g. "local0", "local1", ...) or as numbers (e.g.
   128 for "local0"). Textual form is suggested. Default  is "local0".

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; Severity
.. function:: Severity [syslogSeverity]

   The syslog severity to be assigned to lines read. Can be specified
   in textual form (e.g. "info", "warning", ...) or as numbers (e.g. 4
   for "info"). Textual form is suggested. Default is "notice".

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; PersistStateInterval
.. function:: PersistStateInterval [lines]

   Specifies how often the state file shall be written when processing
   the input file. The **default** value is 0, which means a new state
   file is only written when the monitored files is being closed (end of
   rsyslogd execution). Any other value n means that the state file is
   written every time n file lines have been processed. This setting can
   be used to guard against message duplication due to fatal errors
   (like power fail). Note that this setting affects imfile performance,
   especially when set to a low value. Frequently writing the state file
   is very time consuming.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; startmsg.regex
.. function:: startmsg.regex [POSIX ERE regex]

   This permits the processing of multi-line messages. When set, a
   messages is terminated when the next one begins, and
   ``startmsg.regex`` contains the regex that identifies the start
   of a message. As this parameter is using regular expressions, it
   is more flexible than ``readMode`` but at the cost of lower
   performance.
   Note that ``readMode`` and ``startmsg.regex`` cannot both be
   defined for the same input.

   This parameter is available since rsyslog v8.10.0.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; readMode
.. function:: readMode [mode]

   This provides support for processing some standard types of multiline
   messages. It is less flexible than ``startmsg.regex`` but offers higher
   performance than regex processing. Note that ``readMode`` and
   ``startmsg.regex`` cannot both be defined for the same input.

   The value can range from 0-2 and determines the multiline
   detection method.

   0 - (**default**) line based (each line is a new message)

   1 - paragraph (There is a blank line between log messages)

   2 - indented (new log messages start at the beginning of a line. If a
   line starts with a space it is part of the log message before it)

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; escapeLF
.. function:: escapeLF [on/off] (requires v7.5.3+)

   This is only meaningful if multi-line messages are to be processed.
   LF characters embedded into syslog messages cause a lot of trouble,
   as most tools and even the legacy syslog TCP protocol do not expect
   these. If set to "on", this option avoid this trouble by properly
   escaping LF characters to the 4-byte sequence "#012". This is
   consistent with other rsyslog control character escaping. By default,
   escaping is turned on. If you turn it off, make sure you test very
   carefully with all associated tools. Please note that if you intend
   to use plain TCP syslog with embedded LF characters, you need to
   enable octet-counted framing.
   For more details, see Rainer's blog posting on imfile LF escaping. 

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; MaxLinesAtOnce
.. function:: MaxLinesAtOnce [number]

   This is a legacy setting that only is supported in *polling* mode.
   In *inotify* mode, it is fixed at 0 and all attempts to configure
   a different value will be ignored, but will generate an error
   message.

   Please note that future versions of imfile may not support this
   parameter at all. So it is suggested to not use it.

   In *polling* mode, if set to 0, each file will be fully processed and
   then processing switches to the next file. If it is set to any other
   value, a maximum of [number] lines is processed in sequence for each file,
   and then the file is switched. This provides a kind of mutiplexing
   the load of multiple files and probably leads to a more natural
   distribution of events when multiple busy files are monitored. For
   *polling* mode, the **default** is 10240.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; MaxSubmitAtOnce
.. function:: MaxSubmitAtOnce [number]

   This is an expert option. It can be used to set the maximum input
   batch size that imfile can generate. The **default** is 1024, which
   is suitable for a wide range of applications. Be sure to understand
   rsyslog message batch processing before you modify this option. If
   you do not know what this doc here talks about, this is a good
   indication that you should NOT modify the default.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile;  deleteStateOnFileDelete
.. function:: deleteStateOnFileDelete [on/off] (requires v8.5.0+)

   **Default: on**

   This parameter controls if state files are deleted if their associated
   main file is deleted. Usually, this is a good idea, because otherwise
   problems would occur if a new file with the same name is created. In
   that case, imfile would pick up reading from the last position in
   the **deleted** file, which usually is not what you want.

   However, there is one situation where not deleting associated state
   file makes sense: this is the case if a monitored file is modified
   with an editor (like vi or gedit). Most editors write out modifications
   by deleting the old file and creating a new now. If the state file
   would be deleted in that case, all of the file would be reprocessed,
   something that's probably not intended in most case. As a side-note,
   it is strongly suggested *not* to modify monitored files with
   editors. In any case, in such a situation, it makes sense to
   disable state file deletion. That also applies to similar use
   cases.

   In general, this parameter should only by set if the users
   knows exactly why this is required.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile;  Ruleset
.. function:: Ruleset <ruleset> 

   Binds the listener to a specific :doc:`ruleset <../../concepts/multi_ruleset>`.

.. function:: addMetadata [on/off]

   **Default: see intro section on Metadata**

   This is used to turn on or off the addition of metadata to the
   message object.

.. function:: stateFile [name-of-state-file]

   **Default: unset**

   **This paramater is deprecated.** It still is accepted, but should
   no longer be used for newly created configurations.

   This is the name of this file's state file. This parameter should
   usually **not** be used. Check the section on "State Files" above
   for more details.

Caveats/Known Bugs
------------------

* currently, wildcards are only supported in inotify mode
* read modes other than "0" currently seem to have issues in
  inotify mode

Configuration Example
---------------------

The following sample monitors two files. If you need just one, remove
the second one. If you need more, add them according to the sample ;).
This code must be placed in /etc/rsyslog.conf (or wherever your distro
puts rsyslog's config files). Note that only commands actually needed
need to be specified. The second file uses less commands and uses
defaults instead.

::

  module(load="imfile" PollingInterval="10") #needs to be done just once 

  # File 1 
  input(type="imfile" 
        File="/path/to/file1" 
        Tag="tag1"
        Severity="error" 
        Facility="local7") 

  # File 2
  input(type="imfile" 
        File="/path/to/file2" 
        Tag="tag2")

  # ... and so on ... #

Legacy Configuration
--------------------

Note: in order to preserve compatibility with previous versions, the LF escaping
in multi-line messages is turned off for legacy-configured file monitors
(the "escapeLF" input parameter). This can cause serious problems. So it is highly
suggested that new deployments use the new :ref:`input() <cfgobj_input>` configuration 
object and keep LF escaping turned on. 

Legacy Configuration Directives
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileName
.. function:: $InputFileName /path/to/file

   equivalent to "file"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileTag
.. function:: $InputFileTag tag:

   equivalent to: "tag"
   you would like to see the colon after the tag, you need to specify it
   here (as shown above).

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileStateFile
.. function:: $InputFileStateFile /path/to/state/file

   equivalent to: "StateFile"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileFacility
.. function:: $InputFileFacility facility

   equivalent to: "Facility"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileSeverity
.. function:: $InputFileSeverity severity

   equivalent to: "Severity"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputRunFileMonitor
.. function:: $InputRunFileMonitor

   This **activates** the current monitor. It has no parameters. If you
   forget this directive, no file monitoring will take place.

   There is no new-style equivalent, because inputs are defined via
   the input() object.

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFilePollInterval

.. function:: $InputFilePollInterval seconds

   equivalent to: "PollingInterval"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFilePersistStateInterval

.. function:: $InputFilePersistStateInterval lines

   equivalent to: "PersistStateInterval"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileReadMode

.. function:: $InputFileReadMode mode

   equivalent to: "ReadMode"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileMaxLinesAtOnce

.. function:: $InputFileMaxLinesAtOnce number

   equivalent to: "MaxLinesAtOnce"

.. index:: 
   single: imfile; $InputFileBindRuleset

.. function:: $InputFileBindRuleset ruleset

   Equivalent to: Ruleset

Legacy Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following sample monitors two files. If you need just one, remove
the second one. If you need more, add them according to the sample ;).
Note that only non-default parameters actually needed
need to be specified. The second file uses less directives and uses
defaults instead.

::

  $ModLoad imfile # needs to be done just once 
  # File 1 
  $InputFileName /path/to/file1 
  $InputFileTag tag1: 
  $InputFileStateFile stat-file1

  $InputFileSeverity error 
  $InputFileFacility local7 
  $InputRunFileMonitor
  
  # File 2 
  $InputFileName /path/to/file2 
  $InputFileTag tag2:

  $InputFileStateFile stat-file2 
  $InputRunFileMonitor 
  # ... and so on ...
  # check for new lines every 10 seconds $InputFilePollingInterval 10
